Update Multi-VO page (#418)
rucio/documentation: docs/operator/multi_vo_rucio.md

sidebar_label: Multi-VO Rucio
---

This section provides an overview of using Rucio for multiple virtual
organizations (VOs) on a single instance with the "Multi-VO" feature. Rather
than each VO having to set up an entire instance by themselves, they can share
the same server and database which are run by a central "super_root", and
continue to use Rucio as they would a normal or "Single-VO" instance. Their
accounts, scopes and RSEs are associated with their VO which ensures all rules

> and replicas are kept separate from other VOs using the instance.

Reviewer: I am personally not sure if this section needed to be changed - the previous version seems clear enough to me

> multiple experiments or Virtial Organisations (VOs). Multi-VO Rucio are run by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple experiments or Virtual Organisations (VOs). Multi-VO Rucio are run by a
```

> multiple experiments or Virtial Organisations (VOs). Multi-VO Rucio are run by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple experiments or Virtial Organisations (VOs). Multi-VO Rucio instances are run by a
```

> that deal with the VO requirements and needs. Each VO use Rucio as a normal or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that deal with the VO requirements and needs. Each VO uses Rucio as a normal or
```

associated with their VO which ensures all rules and replicas are kept separate
from other VOs using the instance.

## Changes to the Client

> To utilise the Rucio client against a Multi-VO Rucio the client needs to first
> know it is interacting with a multi-VO Rucio instance, then which VO the client
> should be accessing. this is done in the `rucio.cfg` as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To utilise the Rucio client against a Multi-VO Rucio the client needs to first
know if is interacting with a multi-VO Rucio instance, then which VO the client
should be accessing. this is done in the `rucio.cfg` as shown below:
```

> should be accessing. this is done in the `rucio.cfg` as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should be accessing. This is done in the `rucio.cfg` as shown below:
```

## Changes to the rucio.cfg on the Server and Daemons

Similar settings need to be changed on the server and daemon rucio.cfg files as

> well as on the client end. For the server `multi_vo` should also be set in the
> config file. For the daemons another section is needed to be added, this is to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
well as on the client end. For the server, `multi_vo` should also be set in the
config file. For the daemons, another section needs to be added: this is to
```

map each VO to its own proxy certificate. Rucio uses this information when
submitting and polling transfers to use the correct certificates.

```cfg
[common]
...
multi_vo = True

[vo_certs]
...
<3 char vo name> = <path/to/vo/proxy>
```

It is recommended that the proxies are placed in /tmp/x509up\_[VO], and the
certificates and keys are placed in /opt/rucio/certs/[VO]/ and
/opt/rucio/keys/[VO]/ respectively.

Unlike the Rucio client, `vo` in the `client` section should not be configured
for the server and daemons, unless specifically to ensure certain daemons act
for one VO alone:

```cfg
[common]
...
multi_vo = True
```

> For the daemons files and configuration are needed to allow daemons to act on
> the various VOs, this inludes the VO specific certificates, keys, and proxies,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the daemons, files and configuration are needed to allow daemons to act on
the various VOs: this inludes the VO specific certificates, keys, and proxies,
```

> as well as another configuration section. This section maps each VO to its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as an additional configuration section which maps each VO to its
```

[3 char vo name] = [path/to/vo/proxy]
```

## Role of the super_root

For overall administration of Multi-VO Rucio another layer of admin role has
been created outside of the VO structure. This means each VO has its own
root/admin accounts still retain their administrative role within a VO, for
example adding and editing accounts, adding and modifying RSEs for the VO.

> Functions relating to the creation and management of VOs is handled by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Functions relating to the creation and management of VOs are handled by the
```

## Creating VOs

When creating a new VO with the `add_vo` function you need to specify the three
character identifier for the new VO, which can contain letters and numbers. This
must be unique for the instance (A long VO name can be enabled for usage if
required, as shown in the [`Long VO Name Mapping`](#long-vo-name-mapping)
section). A more complete description can also be optionally included, along

> with an email to use for the root of this new VO. As the new VO is created its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with an email to use for the root of this new VO. As the new VO is created, its
```

corresponding root account is also created, and has all identities associated
with super_root added to it. The identities for the VO root can then be
configured as usual.

## Long VO Name Mapping

The rucio database stores all VO references as a single three-character tag for
performance reasons. It's possible to create aliases for these tag to allow
users/clients to specify long VO names when getting a token (and modifying VOs)
and have these converted to the internal tag automatically. Long VO names should

> only use the basic DNS name character set of alphanumberic characters, hyphen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only use the basic DNS name character set of alphanumeric characters, hyphen
```

You may specify more than one alias for a VO if required.

## Managing VOs

> Super_root can also change the description and email for a VO using `update_vo`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Super_root can also change the description and email for a VO using the `update_vo`
```

API call. If a VO root user loses access to their account, the super_root can
associate a new identity with it using `recover_vo_root_identity`. Finally, a
list of current VOs and their descriptions is accessible via `list_vos`.

## Converting Existing Instances

Rather than initialising a new Rucio instance to support multiple VOs, a
single-VO instance of Rucio can be converted to a Multi-VO instance if desired.

> This conversion allows the Rucio instance to expand the number of supoorted VOs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This conversion allows the Rucio instance to expand the number of supported VOs
```

> with minimal disrution. The tools to perform this can be found in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with minimal disruption. The tools to perform this can be found in
```

[`rucio/tools/convert_database_vo.py`](https://github.com/rucio/rucio/blob/master/tools/convert_database_vo.py),
and further documentation on the [single VO to multi VO](#s-vo-to-m-vo) and
[multi-VO to single VO](#m-vo-to-s-vo) instances are found below.

The fuction `convert_to_mvo` facilitates the conversion of a single-VO instance
to a multi-VO instance, where `convert_to_svo` performs the opposite. VOs can
also be renamed using `rename_vo`, or deleted using `remove_vo`. The conversion
functions are callable by using the command line with details on what each
function requires to be carried out, as well as various optional arguments.

> Rememeber after any database conversion tools are used to update the `rucio.cfg`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that after any database conversion tools are used to update the `rucio.cfg`
```

appropriately, this may include adding the `multi_vo = True`, as found in
[`changes to the rucio.cfg section`](#changes-to-the-ruciocfg-on-the-server-and-daemons).

> These above tools will allow Rucio to change it's VO support model. However,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These above tools will allow Rucio to change its VO support model. However,
```

REFERENCES accounts (account);
```

> By default data associated with any other VOs is left in the database, but will
> be inaccessible to Rucio users. By setting pass the argument `--delete_vos`,
> these entries will be deleted from the database completely:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, data associated with any other VOs is left in the database, but will
be inaccessible to Rucio users.
These entries can be completely deleted from the database
by pasing the `--delete_vos` argument.
```
